1
OA system usage
2
IOS
PC  directly through website http://ec.sidtek.cn:8181 login, enter your account and password.

PC client download from (win+R) \\192.168.66.23\soft\01-常用软件\17-OA客户端.
Mobile devices can download through the following QR code, and after downloading, set the server address
http://ms.sidtek.cn:8999 ，Enter your account  and  password to login.
Android
如何登录新OA？



OA login account is the new work number
 your job number is ST00xxx.(if you don’t  know your job number,you can ask HR)
OA password
OA account

Initial password: sidtek20.21
Please change your password immediately after you go online.
Password of new OA account
3
Email system usage
4
5
Mailbox login
3. After employment, the IT Department will register an enterprise mailbox for each colleague; You can directly log in through 

the web page (email system link: http://xm.sidtek.cn:8088), or use the email login software (such as Foxmail, etc.).
6
4. Foxmail set mailbox login
Log in by entering an account number (such as a tianqibing@sidtek.cn) and password
7
5. Set the mailbox login on the outlook computer
Note: It is not necessary to check the sending server (select to use the same settings as the receiving server) when logging in with secure password authentication (SAP).
5.1 Account Settings Select manual settings or other server types-POP or IMAP input email address (XXX@sidtek.cn), the server for receiving and sending emails is XM. Sidtek. CN-input account name and password (email account and email password)-click the test link on the next page. Complete the setup by passing.
8
5. Set the mailbox login on the outlook mobile phone
Note: Port security must be turned off. Both the outbound and inbound server accounts and passwords need to be as follows to log in.
5.2 Select manual setting for account setting — — IMAP (XXX@sidtek.cn), IMAP receives the IMAP. Sidtek. CN of the mail server, the port number is 143, and the port has no security. The IMAP account and password are the same as the password of the mailbox account. The settings of the SMTP outbound mail server are the same as the IMAP receiving mail server. Click Login.
9
The use of printers
10
6. Printer connection
Win + R Open the computer running tool (or open the windows icon in the lower left corner-open the running tool in the windows system)-enter \ \ PDC-select the printer to be connected and double-click to install the printer (for example, install the printer of the Personnel Administration Department).
11
Once the installation is complete, select the printer you installed when printing.
12
Wireless network usage
13
7. Wireless Internet Connection

Click the wireless network button, select the wireless network (sidtek) to be connected, and enter the password Xt191123 to complete the connection.
Please note that the first letter of the password is capitalized and there is an English dot at the end of the password.
14
The use of desktop cloud
15
1. Startup method:
Thin Client Power On: Power On button is located behind the monitor to the box

2. How to log in to win10:
2.1 Computer account and initial password
Account Number: Full Name
Initial password: sidtek20.21

2.2 Change the initial password
1) Keyboard: "ctrl + alt + del"
2) Select "Change Password"

3. Shutdown method:
3.1 Shut down the thin client: Click "Start Menu" and "Shut Down"
3.2 Power off the monitor
The computer is turned on and off
16
Open word/excel/PowerPoint respectively

Click File Options.

How to log in to win10:
1) Computer account and initial password
Account Number: Full Name
Initial password: sidtek20.21
Configure the office software
Configure the RTX software
Account No.: Job No
Password: None

Configure the server IP






Change password:
Click File File Settings
17
The use of shared folders
18
Some important addresses:
Common software: \\192.168.66.23\soft
File sharing: \\192.168.66.3\安徽熙泰智能科技有限公司
OA：http://ec.sidtek.cn:8181
E-Mail：http://xm.sidtek.cn:8088
